# Ca65 Application

BitMagic supports the debugging of applications compiled with `Ca65`.

BitMagic can debug the application by using the `.o` file generated by `Ca65` in combination with the `.cfg` file used. The object file (`.o`) must be created as this contains the binary to source map that is required by BitMagic.

BitMagic cannot build a `Ca65` application, so this must be done separately. This example project has tasks setup to build and link the simple application.

This is a simple example of how to build and debug an application, for a more complex application please see the [Dream Tracker](../Ca65DreamTracker/) example. Dream Tracker uses more of the functionality provided by `cc65` so it is worth understanding what is included in its `project.json` before starting your own project.

## Building

You will need a install of `cc65` installed on your machine, with `ca65` and `ld65` being in the path. Please see the `tasks.json` file to see how these are used.

*Please note, this may not be the best practice for building applications using ca65. Its a quick example that people can get running without a large toolchain.*

## Extension Activation

There is empty file `blank.bmasm` which is included to activate the BitMagic extension.

You will need to open the file to activate the extension.

Without this you will need to activate the extension manually by selecting it via the Language Mode button in the status bar.

## Debugging

You will not be able to set breakpoints on the `.asm` files by default. To enable this you must tell VSCode that these files are 'BitMagic' files. Sadly this will effect your formatting, but there doesn't appear to be a way to coerce VSCode into enabling this functionality any other way.
